During last months I used AI tools hundreds of times. I have got cursor subscription and I was able to try variety of different models in my tasks. I was watching all AI hype for a while and I was eager to try those tools by myself. Many people are very exited about how it solves their tasks and how productive they are and so on. 

However, for me reality grew different. Probably because of specifics of my work. More specifically, I am working as iOS engineer in already established code base where every change is crucial. The product is not an app but a framework which must work efficiently as possible and with barely noticable CPU usage. However I believe my observations can be applied to any significantly complex project. In these conditions quality of code outperforms quantity. With that said so far among all requests to AI I did not get any generated code to be able to insert in codebase without some modification. It was simply not up to my standard. It lacks deeper project understanding which is crucial in stable codebases. Only few AI generated code chuncks were able to land in my project. But most of AI generated code wasn't event working properly.

I tried different models but none of them seemed to be good enough. There are still tasks exist where AI can be applied. I found it is useful in debugging and exploring logs. Howevever it is still very low chance that it figures out exactly what the problem is. It rather gives a multiple ideas and you can further dig deeper by yourself. Which is still good result because your goal is to find and issue and this sill helps.

Second possible AI usege in established code base is to make task small, give it specific order to build, for example, produce serialization code or unit tests. However even in this simple tasks it is still possible to leak some errors. Coders used to trust code of others in simple things like units measurements and minor things, because when you write code by yourself you already review your own code during the coding process. This is not the case with AI. Generated code tends to leak all sorts of errors. Some of them are barely visible. I can estimate that at least 20% of landed PR requests contans some sort of design error or bug. This leads us to last point - software quality degradation. With multiple failing PR compounding over time it is only matter of time that solution begin to crumble. This may take year or two but eventually I will become visible how AI tools making code fragile. We must be extremely cautions when reviewing AI PRs but we all just humans.

Yes, all latest 50 years of advances in understanding what the good code is - may be completely destroyed with recent AI usage. At current level it is still not enough to completely understand complex code base. AI is still like junior engineer which code fast but code in 50% is not working, in other 50% is working but not good enough. This may work if you need to quickly build some tool or website. However if you have a complex established code base where quality of code overweight the quantity - trusting AI much is a road to doom. 